Israel says waves of its war planes have
carried out preemptive strikes against
Hezbollah militant Targets in Lebanon
where authorities reported three deaths
Hezbollah says it has launched drones
against Israel in retaliation for the
recent assassination of one of its
commanders early morning in Northern
Israel the Iron Dome Springs into action
as Hezbollah begins what the militant
group calls phase one of an attack on
Israel hundreds of rockets and drones
fired towards 11 military sites
retaliation it says for the killing of
one of its commanders in Beirut last
month Hezbollah says it struck a
military base near Tel Aviv a claim
Israel denies hezbollah's Chief cites
the Gaza ceasefire talks as the reason
for their delayed response to their
Commander's death in a televised address
they started saying that there will be a
stop to the aggression and that there
was going to be a ceasefire and to hold
off and that's why we took our time we
didn't tell anyone we would take our
time but honestly we did to give room
for these
negotiations he warned that hezbollah's
response may not yet be
over Israel says it began preemptive air
strikes on Sunday against Hezbollah
Targets in Lebanon after they detected
PL plans of an attack against its
territory the IDF claimed 100 fighter
jets have struck and destroyed thousands
of Hezbollah rocket launcher barrels
aimed at
Israel it also released these images it
says are of a Hezbollah drone being
intercepted Israel's prime minister
issued a warning after an emergency
National Security cabinet
meeting we determined to do everything
to protect our country return the
residents of the north to their homes
and continue to follow a simple rule
whoever hurts us we hurt them Sunday's
escalation further heightens tensions as
talks to reach a ceasefire and a hostage
release deal in Gaza
continue in Gaza Hamas militants say
they fired a rocket at Tel Aviv Israel
says the rocket landed in an open area
in Rishon leion a city located just
south of Tel Aviv Sirens rang out in the
area as the projectile crossed from
Southern Gaza into Israel according to
Israel's military Hamas is designated as
a terrorist group by many countries and
organizations and journalist balik
sladin is in Tel Aviv where he joins us
now balik what's the latest you can tell
us yes less than an hour ago the s went
off in recently as you said it's a city
just south of Tel Aviv and according to
what hamas's military Wing as Kasam just
said that they launched an M90 rocket
which is a long range or it depends how
long it considered long 90 kilm range
toward the city of Tel Aviv it fell in
open area just outside of Rion according
to ma which is the Israeli Health
authorities there were no casualties or
no damage as a result of that attack
apparently and according to what some
reports are saying there were two
rockets that were fired from Han yunes
which is south of the Gaza Strip one of
them fell in Gaza so in the Gaza Strip
and the other one crossed into Israeli
airspace again open terrain no
casualties and no damage and how does
Israel see the fact that Hamas is still
able to fire rockets at Tel Aviv
well since the beginning the estimation
was in Israel that until the end
quotequote Hamas will try to launch
rockets against Israeli targets
especially in Tel Aviv area because of
the fact that they want to preserve this
image of being or keeping their
capabilities even though that the
Israeli um operation is continuing so
right now we're seeing that as long or
as the Israeli military advances into
new areas for example in and recent
couple of days Hamas will launch rockets
that are left there that's what the
estimation Israel is and on the other
hand while we are seeing that hamas's
military ring is taking responsibility
for that it's very probable that in the
coming hours or maybe even in the coming
1 hour we will hear new instructions
from the Israel
uh um from the Ida spokesperson excuse
me telling the uh um areas in which the
uh rocket was launched from to evacuate
everyone from there because of the
Israeli operations expansion toward that
area that has been the case that has
been the normal uh in the recent couple
of months and that's why uh it's very
probable that we're going to hear new
evacuation orders for the population
that are in that area as well all right
B sliding in Tel Aviv thank you so very
much well Laura Blumenfeld is a Middle
East analyst and former adviser to the
US state Department's Israeli
Palestinian negotiating team she joins
me from Washington DC welcome Laura uh
let's talk about these attacks between
Israel and hez bolot do you think this
is just a brief escalation or are we
looking at more to come in the next days
and
weeks um look it was a significant
escalation but it is the the Middle East
there were bombs in the morning and by
the afternoon in Israel and Lebanon the
beaches were open and in Egypt the
ceasefire talks could continued um you
know it's Middle East math there are
many open accounts so I do think to
answer your question there will be more
unfortunately and as prime minister
Netanyahu himself said this is not the
end of the story that was his quote I
mean there's still you know open account
with the houthis there's more
potentially with Hezbollah the Israeli
civilians return to their homes which
are ghost Villages right now in the
north a school is starting it'll be the
second year that Israeli children aren't
able to attend school in their hometowns
along that northern border and and of
course there's Iran hanging out there so
I I'm I'm sorry to say at the start of
our week that this is not the end now
let's just talk a little bit about the
timing of the Hezbollah attack on Israel
Hezbollah says it was retaliating
against Israel for the killing of one of
its commanders last month uh but they
didn't launched their Massive Attack
until Israel attacked Southern Lebanon
why do you think that they
waited well part of it I do take it face
value what Nala said I mean the
ceasefire talks there's been no
breakthrough but they have had a
breakdown and he certainly doesn't want
to be part of that kind of blame game
while they can't agree on the end game
uh between Israel and Hamas part of it
is you know a bid for World favor
another thing is you know as the head of
the mosad once told me but I think Nala
is following the same rule when it comes
to retaliation
you choose the timing you choose the
method and you choose the battlefield
and part of it is by making making your
opponent wait is the kind of
psychological head game right where
where you know the Israelis have been on
edge so have the Lebanese for that
matter but the the Israelis have been uh
you know in in sort of deep angst mode
um the economy is suffering and all that
is part of the pain it's part of the
punishment and talking about waiting for
retaliation let's just talk about Iran
briefly they vowed revenge on Israel for
the killing of hamas's political Chief
is hania in tan last month so far they
haven't attacked Israel what do you
think's going on
there well I think Iran for for sure is
playing the long G the long game there
is a clock ticking down um in Palestine
square into Heron which is a Doomsday
Clock which supposedly is going to uh
you know countdown to Israel's
Annihilation um they do want punishment
I do believe there is a sort of need for
blood blood for blood um and it could
potentially show the form of some kind
of terrorist attack abroad perhaps but
in the meantime you know the United
States has sent two Strike Force carrier
groups and that submarine that they sent
is not a defensive weapon it is an
offensive submarine and I think that
they're getting that message loud and
clear Middle East analyst Laura
Blumenfeld thank you for your
insights thank you